Cellular Foundations in Oral Health
Cells**: Cells are the basic building blocks of the body, with about 75 trillion present in adults.
Each cell plays a vital role in maintaining health, including oral health.
Key Structures**:
Cell Membrane**: This protective barrier regulates the movement of substances in
and out of the cell, ensuring nutrient intake and waste removal.
Cytoplasm**: A gel-like substance surrounding organelles, the cytoplasm facilitates essential biochemical reactions needed for cell function.
Nucleus**: The cell's command center, the nucleus contains DNA and RNA.
DNA holds genetic instructions, while RNA is involved in protein synthesis and gene regulation.
Relevance**:
Stem Cells**: These undifferentiated cells can develop into various cell types and have significant potential in oral health.
They may regenerate damaged dental tissues, especially in cases of periodontal disease, leading
to innovative treatment options that focus on restoration rather than mere symptom management.